you're listening to a teaching from Reality LA.
I'm excited to be with you guys.
We're concluding our four week essentials series today.
And we're talking about what it means to serve in some capacity.
So I want to start off real quick with a little story.
I read a book recently.
And part of the story, there was this man who collapsed on a city sidewalk.
And dozens and dozens of people just walked right by him.
And some people would slow down and look.
But for a long stretch of time, nobody stopped.
Nobody actually did anything to help.
And then later, when people were interviewed and asked about this scenario, not one of the people said, I didn't care.
Some people said things like, oh, I assume somebody else had it handled.
Or I didn't know what to do in that situation.
Or I couldn't stop.
I had to be somewhere.
And the story stuck with me because the onlookers in that story were not unusually cruel.
They were painfully normal.
It reveals this uncomfortable truth that it's possible to notice needs and to feel concern and to even believe the right things and then still keep moving.
And it unearths this really important question that we need to be asking as well, which is what does real living faith do when it encounters real needs?
That's what we're gonna dig into today.
In James chapter two, starting in verse 14, if you have your Bibles, you can head there.
We're gonna start in verse 14, and it's gonna press us a little bit on that question, not to shame us, not to guilt us into action, but to lovingly expose to us the difference between the kind of faith that sounds right
and the kind of faith that is alive.
So let me read the scripture for us and then we'll pray together.
James 2 starting in verse 14, what good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works, can that faith save him?
If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, go in peace, be warm and filled without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that?
So also, faith by itself
if it does not have works is dead.
Let's pray together.
Father in heaven, we love you.
We love you and our greatest desire is to love you with all of our heart and soul and mind and strength.
And so we pray and ask God today that the truth of your word with lovingly, gently, convict our hearts away from the temptations of comfort and of ease and lead us towards this
Call to sacrificial service that you've given to us.
Not out of guilt, not out of shame, but as a response to love.
And so, God, our prayer is simply like, help us.
Help us to do that, Lord.
We pray these things in your mighty name, Jesus.
And everybody said, amen.
Amen.
All right, I need to, it's gonna be a slightly untraditional start here to the sermon.
I wanna lay out the gospel here right at the beginning, okay?
The preaching books are like, no!
But I'm the bad boy of the reality la teaching team.
What can I say?
Or this is why I preach two times a year.
We'll find out.
No.
But listen, we got to start here.
It is imperative to start here because this is absolutely foundational.
And I don't want James too to confuse us right from the beginning.
It is not what you do for God that saves you.
You do not and you cannot earn your way to God.
as one of the primary distinctions between Christianity and every other system of belief.
Everything else says, work your way to God or to salvation or to some sense of worthiness.
But Christ says, you are sinful and you are imperfect.
You cannot earn your way back to me, but I will come to you.
All you need to do is belief.
All you need to do is trust in me.
This is throughout Scripture, Romans 3, 28, for we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law.
Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, for by grace you have been saved through faith.
And this is not your own doing, it is the gift of God, not a result of works so that no one may boast.
Okay, you are saved by the grace of God through faith in Jesus, full stop, no additions to that, nothing else.
If you hear anything contrary to that alarm bells, better go off in your mind.
So James 2 right here, it's not asking if faith does or does not save, it's asking what kind of faith are we talking about here?
And for James, when he says faith by itself, he's talking about a false kind of faith.
It's not that true faith doesn't save, it's that the wrong faith, that faith, as he says in verse 14, cannot save.
And what he's addressing is this professed only faith, a correct sounding faith.
He's warning us there is a faith that can exist at the level of intellectual agreement, or theological correctness, or even religious language, but never take root in the heart.
A couple verses later in verse 19, it says, even demons believe in God.
They know who God is.
It's not a knowledge thing.
And James doesn't say that this kind of faith is imperfect, he doesn't call it flawed, and verse 17, he says this professed only faith by itself is dead.
It is like a body that has no breath in it.
It is disobedience that's dressed up as spirituality.
Think back to when Jesus told the parable of the good Samaritan.
There's a man who's beaten, he's left for dead on the side of the road, and a priest, he sees him,
He acknowledges the need, but what does he do?
He walks right by, goes to the other side of the street.
And then a Levite, another religious leader, he sees them and he does the same thing.
And so it takes a man who would have been considered this beaten man's enemy, a Samaritan man filled with compassion to stop and to help.
And look, it wasn't that the Levite and the priest didn't know about God's compassion, they didn't lack theology, they lacked a transformed heart.
So no, works don't save people, but a lack of works are a demonstration of a lack of saving faith.
And verse 15 and 16 paint a picture of what faith without works looks like in everyday life.
It doesn't deny needs, it notices them, but then keeps moving without stepping towards them.
It speaks with this language of compassion without ever dignifying the person in front of them.
And it offers words like, I'll pray for you, or be blessed.
Not as a promise of presence, but as a way of avoiding cost.
And this honestly, this is the stuff that people outside of the church pounce on.
And you know what?
Fair enough.
When it's accurate, we need to repent of this posture.
The 2024 Barna study concluded the primary reason that people resist Christian belief today is the hypocrisy of religious people.
A lifeless faith is gonna undermine and discredit to a world who's watching.
And so listen, orthodoxy is great, but orthodoxy without obedience, it's just spiritual noise.
So you gotta ask yourself, can your life be characterized as one that is filled with spiritual language and intention, but bears no fruit of that faith?
Is your faith alive, or is it dead?
Because the response that James critiquing right here, it's not human cruelty.
It's polite spirituality.
Go in peace.
Be warmed.
Be filled.
That's not harsh.
That's not unkind.
It's probably genuine.
It's not an evil response.
It's an incomplete one.
So we hear this and we're like, OK, got it.
It can't just stay theoretical.
Real faith goes on the move.
So let's go.
Let's get to work.
Time to move.
Love the impulse, slow your roll a little bit.
Because we can't just swing the pendulum all the way to the other side either.
Because as much as you can know God, but never live for God, Scripture is also clear.
You can serve God without ever knowing God.
You can do the right things for the wrong reasons.
You can perform good actions with all of the wrong motivation.
Matthew 7,
speaks of this most clearly.
It talks about people doing all sorts of mighty works in the name of God, but then it concludes with Jesus saying, and then will I declare to them, I never knew you, depart from me.
You workers of lawlessness.
Ah, it should be terrifying.
Listen, God does not just want religious performers.
I remember back in elementary school, we had this thing called Random Acts of Kind this week,
where we would basically track all the good, helpful, moral things that we would do.
And then we'd turn it in at the end of the week.
And my friends, it was mayhem.
Mayhem.
You have never seen so many self-righteous third graders in your life.
Myself included.
I would rake my neighbor's leaves and immediately turn to my friend and be like, you suck.
I'm like, what?
Like it was like, it was competitive kindness at that point.
And listen, it may have produced good actions, but it created little monsters.
You know, we were completely detached from the correct motivation behind why we were doing those things in the first place.
And so as much as we are called to good works for God, we also need to remember God doesn't just want a result while missing out on the heart.
That's not the point either.
And when it is, when service is not rooted in Christ and not rooted in good news, its motivational engine becomes fueled by morality or approval or guilt or need to feel meaningful in some way.
And then it quickly will just turn into this performance-based, selective, exhausting, works-for-love exchange.
And when that happens, we become tempted to turn people into projects, to turn obedience into spiritual leverage, and to turn serving into a religious activity.
And in the process, we burn out, or we build up pride or resentment, and we ignore real actual heart level needs.
And so James is telling us words without actions are hollow, but he's also not calling us to religious activity apart from faith.
So what is it?
It's not faith without works.
That's like a tree that bears no fruit.
But it's also not works without faith or faith plus works for salvation.
That's like fruit that grows from a rotten core.
It's faith that produces works.
Works don't save, but saved people work.
Ephesians two really helps us here, verses eight through nine.
They made it clear, save by grace, by faith, not by works.
But then verse 10 follows immediately, for we are His workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them.
So these good works, they're not the root of salvation, they're the fruit of salvation.
They're not the cause, they are the evidence.
As I've heard it said, living faiths like gravity.
You don't see gravity, but you can definitely see its effects.
You feel it.
And so true faith in the gospel is going to produce hearts and lives postured towards sacrificial service on God's mission.
And that's because it looks to and it's empowered by a God who serves us first.
James is not asking us to be something that God is not already himself.
This is from beginning to end in your Bible.
It reveals a God whose character is love expressed through action.
We see this, I mean, you see this within God himself.
The Father sends the Son.
The Son willingly gives of himself.
The Spirit humbly glorifies the Son.
Every direction you look in the Trinity, God's life is marked by joyful and sacrificial love.
And so when God calls us to serve, he's inviting us to simply reflect who he is, to reflect his character.
And we see this again, all throughout scripture, but this culminates in the person of Jesus Christ.
Jesus came and he proclaimed the kingdom of God.
He spoke of the kingdom of God, but he also healed the sick, fed the hungry, restored the outcast, wept with the mourners, dignified the ignored,
He witnessed in word and deed.
I know you're waiting for this one in the serve sermon.
Mark 1045, okay, for even the son of man came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many.
And that word that's used there to serve, Diaconneo, my pronunciation, I'm doing my best.
That word, it was used to describe these low status roles in society, things like waiters, or household assistants, or messengers.
And so when Jesus says this, when he says the son of man came to Diaconneo, he's actually completely redefining what it means to be great, what it means to have authority and power.
And he's doing that by fusing together these two categories that Jewish people had kept separate.
One is the son of man.
from Daniel 7, this exalted ruler, this powerful Messiah.
And the other is the suffering servant from Isaiah 53, the one who would bear sin, who would lay his life down for the sake of his people.
And that fusion will come to its greatest climax in the ultimate sacrificial service of the cross.
Philippians 2, it's one of my
absolute favorite passages in Scripture.
I think it details it beautifully.
It says, being born in the likeness of men and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross.
This is the true power of God, is that we have a king of the universe who would serve unto death.
Listen, the world's gonna tell us that power is to wipe the floor clean with your enemies.
But Jesus says power is to get onto the floor and wipe your enemies' feet.
So we work, we serve, not to imitate some
abstract ideal or to do the right moral thing, but as a response to grace, as a reflection of the God who has already served us first.
And then when our faith is in Christ, when we trust in Jesus, we become servants who then serve in a multitude of ways.
So in Christ, a living faith will serve with a new identity and with a new heart and with new motivations.
Listen, guilt,
Fear, ego, comfort, comparison.
Those might be powerful motivators in the moment, but they are terrible masters.
They can drive you for a little while, but they will not sustain you.
They will eventually burn you out, leave you empty, and steal your joy.
But the gospel comes in and it changes the whole fuel source for you.
In Christ, acceptance is already yours.
Your salvation
is secure and so you don't serve to become loved.
You serve because you already are.
That is who you are.
Jesus hasn't just given us tasks to do.
He's telling you who you are.
James two, it's not guilting you into doing these things.
It's trying to invite you or to re-invite you into a given identity.
You are a child of God.
And then God reminds you
What a child of God does.
It serves.
So when your heart changes, everything will change.
And you don't have to serve.
You get to serve.
You get to participate.
And it's not from guilt.
It's not from condemnation.
It's not from comparison.
It's out of freedom and gratitude that we serve.
Second in Christ, we also serve sacrificially, okay?
You're serving not destructively,
Not to the point of burnout, but we will serve absorbing real costs.
And we need to recognize our default as human beings is self-preservation.
We have been trained to protect our time and our capacity and our comfort.
And all of us, I don't doubt this at all, I think all of us wanna live lives of purpose and of meeting until it costs us something.
The priest and the Levite didn't hate the wounded man.
They just had somewhere else to be.
One of the greatest barriers that we have in serving isn't hostility, it's distraction or consumption or hurry.
So look, crowded schedules can feel really virtuous and justified, but sometimes it is just a socially acceptable way to avoid obedience.
Living faith is gonna confront that selfishness.
It's one of the primary ways that God disciples us out of self-centered living and exposes these quiet idols that we have of busyness and of self-importance.
So you gotta ask yourself, what do I need to stop doing to have the margin to love my neighbor and the way that God has called me to?
Okay, third, in Christ, we serve
with a dignity-driven posture and perspective.
We know, just like James 2 describes, we were once spiritually poor.
We are exposed.
We are in need.
And God didn't just say to us, go in peace, figure it out on your own.
He moved towards us.
And so we now move towards others.
Not as saviors.
We are not the saviors in this situation, but as fellow image bearers with one another.
And so when we talk about dignity-driven ministry, what we're saying is it's a ministry that recognizes and affirms the God-given dignity that's already present in every person.
It refuses to operate out of this place of superiority or with this pity mindset.
In God's kingdom, people aren't problems to deal with or projects to fix.
They're image-bearers to love and to serve.
And it doesn't deny.
that there are real needs, it just refuses to define people by the need.
We learn to see people's humanity before we see their hardship.
And it's precisely because humans are made in the image of God that we do.
We seek healing when people are wounded.
We seek justice when dignity is being violated.
We seek renewal where people feel forgotten and we seek restoration where brokenness has taken root.
And listen, we're to do this wisely and we wanna do this humbly, not driven by outrage cycles or cultural pressures, but we are rooted in God's word and in God's heart and we seek these things.
The parable of the Good Samaritan, it begins with a question, a lawyer comes to Jesus and he asks him, who is my neighbor?
But the lawyer is not curious to the answer to that question.
He's actually just trying to draw boundaries for himself.
He's trying to figure out,
Who can I avoid?
And Jesus, wisely as he does, reframes the question.
He says, who do you see as an interruption in your life?
Who's a risk?
Who's a problem that you're trying to avoid?
But look, God's people are not called to decide who qualifies for love.
We are to become people who move towards suffering without calculating worthiness.
And Scripture makes it clear who we're called to move toward.
James 2, right here, it identifies, a brother or sister among us whose poorly clothed and lacking in food.
God says, go there.
I love them.
And in Scripture, consistently names groups of people who are rejected or marginalized.
The poor, the widow, the orphan, the foreigner, the sick, the condemned, the exploited.
The very people our culture is most tempted to pass by.
God says, I love them.
Go there.
Jesus commands love for his enemies and then he models it on the cross.
God says, go there.
I love them.
We move towards the need without pre-selection because you will never meet somebody that God doesn't love.
And then Matthew 25, it reminds us that when we do that, when we feed the hungry and clothe the naked and welcome the stranger or visit the sick, ultimately we are serving Christ himself.
Connects in Christ, we serve as participants in God's mission, and we seek the welfare and the peace of the city that we are in.
James 2, it's a description of needs that arise in God's house with brothers or sisters, but it's clear that this heart doesn't just stay here.
We gather for worship, we scatter for mission throughout the city.
I wanna ask quickly, how many people in here are missionaries?
Trick question, it's all of you.
You should have seen that coming.
Listen, ultimately, you are here because God has sent you here.
And if God has sent you here, you are a missionary in Los Angeles for however long God has you here.
Have that mentality, have that posture.
You are in Los Angeles because God has called you to live in the city for him.
And we've talked about this before.
Most people,
come to Los Angeles or live in Los Angeles asking, what can I get from this place?
We ask a different question.
What can I give?
Who can I love?
Where can I serve?
We're not, God's people are not against the city, we're in the city, we are for the city.
We're partnering with God as participants in his mission.
And so that means we want to see hurting people healed.
We wanna see broken people restored.
We wanna see people who are lost in the kingdom of darkness saved and brought to the kingdom of light.
That is our desire.
And so listen, we're not here to avoid.
We're not scared of the seculars out there, okay?
We seek the good of our neighbor and we seek the good of our city even when it feels like they're not returning the favor.
Because when the church
serves with this kind of living faith that James is talking about.
With sacrificial love, we become a living testimony.
We become this demonstrated witness to Christ, to the world around us.
Our serving doesn't just help the world, it reveals God to them.
A living faith shows we serve a living savior.
Okay, next, in Christ, we serve with endurance.
James here in James 2, he's not rebuking someone who like occasionally forgot to help.
He's not just getting on somebody's case.
That's not the point.
He is describing a particular moment, but what he's confronting is a pattern in people's lives.
And so living faith, it doesn't produce just these random bursts of kindness.
It produces a consistent embodied love for people.
And so faith that's alive will show up again
and again and again, because it's not a project to accomplish.
It's not a box to check.
It's a posture we want to cultivate over time.
Scripture tells us this kind of service that we're talking about, sacrificial service requires endurance.
Galatians 6, beginning of verse 9, it says, and let us not grow weary of doing good.
For in due season, we will reap if we do not give up.
So then, as we have opportunity,
do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith.
And this passage assumes something that's kind of awkward to admit, but we should acknowledge it.
Doing good does get exhausting sometimes.
It's hard.
Serving people can be messy, and it can be slow and unpredictable.
Sometimes, maybe a lot of times, you don't see change.
You're not gonna get thanked.
Sometimes you invest years and years in wonder, God, is anything happening at all?
But God says, don't grow weary.
Don't grow weary.
The gospel will free you to endure because we are not serving to get a quick result today.
We're serving, trusting that God will produce eternal fruit, even if we don't get to see it.
Most brokenness is not solved in a moment.
It's healing.
through faithful presence over time.
Scripture promises that kind of endurance is not wasted, right?
In due season, we will reap if we do not give up.
So we serve with endurance.
Next in Christ, we serve by meeting real needs, both physical and spiritual.
This is where James 2 is just screaming out at us with convicting clarity, okay?
Scripture never
forces us to choose between caring for someone's soul and caring for their body.
It's not a binary choice that we have to make.
Our incarnate God cares about both.
And so we believe that a person's ultimate need is salvation in Jesus, yes.
But that doesn't discount or diminish their physical needs at all.
It means that when someone's hungry, feed them.
When someone's hurting, comfort them.
If they're lonely, see them, be with them.
And when someone is spiritually lost, point them to Jesus.
Those are not separate missions.
That is one gospel mission.
Really helpful way that I've heard it described is that the world suffers from both physical and spiritual hunger.
And the holistic mission of God's people is to satisfy both of those hungers through the bread of life and through loaves of bread.
I love that picture.
This is why the ministry at Serve LA matters.
Serve LA is what compassion looks like when it follows through.
We're talking about 70,000 plus meals a year, hundreds of showers and services for the whole person, right, from clothing to housing resources to medical care, guiding people from a place of suffering to flourishing,
And physical needs are being met for some of the most vulnerable people in our city, but the heartbeat has always been deeper than that.
It's always been about being more than a meal.
It's learning a name.
It's making eye contact with people who have been made invisible in Los Angeles.
It's asking to hear somebody's story and praying for them.
It's affirming dignity before seeing need, but then also meeting the needs of the soul and the body.
Bread of life loaves of bread.
Christ offers both.
And then finally, in Christ, we serve blessing others, but also being blessed by serving as well.
When we serve, God often blesses us through it too.
It's a classic God too for one situation.
Classic.
God forms us as we serve, and He allows us to experience the blessings of Christ in ways that we honestly might otherwise miss.
I see this all over the place, but one that holds a special place in my heart is I see this every year at Royal Family Kids camp.
Yes, at the camp.
It's this a camp for children who are part of the foster care system here in Los Angeles.
We have about 600 catchphrases that we use every year, but one that stuck with me is we always say, campus for the campers, campus for the campers, but no one comes home unchanged.
You go there to pour out for others, but God shaped your heart in unmatched ways as you do.
Sign up for camp in March.
So sacrificial service, it's gonna cost you something, but at the same time,
Serving has a particular way of setting people free.
There's a study from Columbia University that found out that volunteering was associated with up to a 43% reduction in depression risk amongst participants.
And a 90% of the volunteers said that serving helped them build meaningful relationships in a stronger sense of purpose in their life.
But listen, that's not just psychology, that's design.
That's how God made us.
You're created to love God and to love your neighbor.
And so when you live in that calling, you will continue to become the person that God has designed you to be.
And we're to do this together.
God calls us to serve together.
New Testament describes the church as a body, right?
One body of different members.
So we have different gifts, different strengths, different roles, but we have one mission.
It's just gonna happen in different ways.
We serve together, right?
Some people are gonna teach.
Some are going to make meals.
Some are going to lift heavy objects.
Some are going to lift light objects.
Some are going to hold babies.
That might be the light object that you lift, depending on the baby.
Some people are going to bear, bird, whatever it is.
We need everyone.
Everyone has a part.
This is not just for leaders.
This is not just for the spiritually mature.
This is everyone.
We all have a part.
And if you ever want to feel connected to the body of Christ, one of the most powerful ways you can do, you can do that, is serving alongside it.
Discipleship and friendship aren't just happening in these rows and in our small groups, they happen as we serve.
Okay, so we know who we are in Christ, we know what that makes us, and we know what that is meant to produce.
But James doesn't let this just stay theoretical.
So what does this look like for us today?
At the beginning of this series on Vision Sunday, we took a survey of the church.
And one of the questions was, do you regularly serve in any capacity?
And we have the results.
I feel like Steve Cornaki right now, like tight district.
It's an election, I joke.
So about 53% of the church said yes, I serve in some capacity in Los Angeles, 47% said no.
So about half the people here say that they don't serve in some capacity.
But give me a couple minutes, I actually think that number can change.
Because even though the same faith that saves us, sends us all, it doesn't send us all in the same exact way.
And that's good.
The faith that James 2 is describing, it produces the same posture for everyone.
We're all to be sacrificial servants, but it's expressed in a multitude of different ways.
And so what I want to invite us to do is ask two primary questions today.
Two primary questions.
The first one is this.
What are you already doing that God is inviting you to approach with the posture of sacrificial service?
What are you already doing?
that God is inviting you to reframe your posture.
Because here's what we miss often.
You are already on God's mission.
We've talked about that.
God is already present in the spaces that you occupy.
So serve him there.
Faithful servant, faithful service in God's kingdom, it's not measured by your visibility or by your platform or by your numerical impact.
It's measured by love and obedience.
And so you can serve
Whether it feels significant or unnoticed knowing that your service matters to God wherever you are.
And this posture should reframe some things for us.
Some people here have capacities and have limitations that are unavoidable and that are real.
It could be a stage of life, it could be physical limitations, it could be this nontraditional schedule that you have, whatever it is.
But this question, this posture, combats the idea that you can't serve.
You can't.
Everyone can serve.
And so what if you started thinking of your job, not just as a way to make money or to make impact, but as an opportunity to serve the Lord and to serve other people?
What if your parenting wasn't just survival mode, but it was your opportunity for sacred service in this season of life?
So what if your commute, what if your schedule, what if your routine became places of living faithfulness?
This shows up in a thousand seemingly ordinary ways in our lives.
So can you lead with the mind and heart of Christ in any space you find yourself in?
In a community group, as a little league team coach, as a member of the PTA or a board that you sit on, can you lead with the mind and heart of Christ?
Can you adjust your schedule a little bit to make room in your life and in your home and in your table and in your rhythms to create belonging for other people?
It shows up in your caring for your children or for your aging parents or for a friend who's sick.
It shows up when you're sitting quietly with friends who are in grief or being generous with your time and your money if you can't physically be somewhere.
or advocating for those who don't have a voice.
So ask this question, what am I already doing that I can approach with the posture of sacrificial service?
I think of my friend and yours, my dear friend Magenna, she was telling me about her little Bible bus that she has on Tuesday nights as she calls it.
She was already driving her daughters to youth group, that wasn't a new thing, but she asked the Lord, like help me to reframe this with a heart of service.
And so she's asking, what if I can pick up a couple other students on the way and care for some families in that way?
What if these 15 minutes in the car could look like intentional discipleship?
She wasn't adding something extraordinary to her schedule.
She just let living faith reshape what she was already doing.
And here's the key with this.
You don't need to immediately rush over there before you pay attention to right here.
What's right in front of us?
Who is sitting next to you right now?
Who you can serve?
Who is already in front of you in your life?
Who's cold, hungry, lonely, unseen?
Are you paying attention to what you are already doing and how God might be inviting you to serve Him as you're doing it?
Don't need to stuff your schedule with a bunch of whole new things.
How can you serve where God has you right now?
Start there.
Okay, but then you have to ask a second question, arguably a harder question for our hearts.
The second question, where is God calling you to go and costly service for his kingdom and his people?
Because Jesus doesn't just ask people to serve where they have time or when they feel ready.
He asks people to do things that are inconvenient.
He pulled fishermen off a boat mid-career, literally in the middle of their shift.
He said, follow me.
He sent disciples out before they felt sufficiently trained up to do the job.
You were to go where and when Jesus says go, not just when it's convenient for you.
No one, we're not gonna just naturally drift into serventhood.
It's not how we're wired.
It's gonna require intentional resistance to our natural desires for comfort and for ease.
And so ask, God, where are you calling me?
to sacrificially count the cost for the good of another and for participation in your mission.
And then be prepared because this is going to demand that you reshape your schedule or your PTO, your wallet, your rhythms, your plans, things are gonna need to change.
And just like the other category, there's a thousand different ways that this can happen.
I literally cannot name them all, so this is not an exhaustive list.
But here's a few needs that we've identified as a church that I'd love for you to consider as you're asking God about this.
First is Sundays.
Here, we're here to gather on Sundays, but should some of my Sundays look a little different so I can serve my fellow sisters and brothers, can I get up a little earlier to set up the space or stay a little bit later to tear down or serve as an usher during our gatherings?
Those are all pressing needs that we have right now.
Or can I seek to disciple the children in our church by being a kid's or a preteen or youth volunteer?
You can.
And so can you.
All these things.
Can I create parking spaces for someone who hasn't heard the gospel to come and hear good news?
It's not over spiritualizing.
Can I do these things even if it costs me two Sundays a month looking the same as it does right now?
Lord, is this how I can serve your people?
And for some of you, it is.
And for some people, it's not.
That's okay.
But some people aren't even considering it.
And you need to ask.
And it's not just serving one another inside the house.
Servants on God's mission seek the good of the city.
We talked about that.
And so we have mission partners.
who are witnessing to Christ in word and indeed throughout Los Angeles and who we wanna partner with in a variety of different ways.
And we're gonna take time throughout the year to highlight them here on Sundays and online.
But you can go to the webpage, you can learn all about how we have partners who are seeking restoration across the city and see how you can serve with them on mission in Los Angeles.
And then as a church, we've asked God to show us
Where has the shalom of the city been most fractured in Los Angeles?
And God, how are you uniquely calling us, this body of believers, to step in in a few specific spaces and to seek deep, compassionate, sustained service for our city?
And he's revealed two priorities for us in that.
First is we are to feed and clothe the poor.
And the primary way that's going to happen is through the Ministry of Serve LA.
So come.
Come and prep a meal.
Set tables.
Serve meals.
Help with the shower ministry.
Sit and connect with neighbors who come through.
Peel some artichokes together.
Really get to the heart.
Fellow pastor, how dare you.
But we aren't...
That's the first area we do.
We want to feed and clothe the poor, and the primary way that's going to happen is through ServLA.
Secondly, we're called to care for the orphan.
And that's primarily going to look like serving in foster care spaces, for us as a church.
And foster care is a prime example of how we can have the same posture of sacrificial service, but a ton of different expressions of what that looks like.
So most people, to be honest, I think most of us will hear foster care and say, I either become a foster parent or I can't really be involved.
That's kind of the dichotomy we give ourselves, but that couldn't be further from the truth.
Okay, there are so many different access points for sacrificially serving in this way.
And so some people will foster children and we praise God for that.
And I don't want you to assume that that's not you.
That might be you.
Earnestly pray for that.
But other people are gonna participate by being a counselor or a mentor through RFKC.
Other people are gonna become a host family for a weekend so they can give respite care to some bio-parents.
Other people will join with a mission partner and help intercede before child services even need to be part of the equation.
Other people can make a meal or do laundry once a week for a family who is fostering.
Other people can pray.
Everyone has a role.
Everyone can participate.
So I wanna close with this.
Some people here
today simply need to be encouraged.
You are serving faithfully and sacrificially, so keep going.
Indoor well.
Don't grow weary of doing good.
Serve unto the Lord.
Ask Him today, Lord, refresh my heart, to serve not out of a place of obligation, but out of a place of joy.
Other people here, as we talked about, are serving, but don't even realize it.
And perhaps what you need today is to ask God to help you look at your life through the lens of serving and ask, how can I do what I'm doing right now unto the Lord?
And then some people here just aren't serving at all.
And what you hear, what you need to hear today, please do not hear any sort of shame or guilt.
That's not what you need to hear.
You don't need shame or guilt, but you do need to be challenged a little bit.
Some of you need to remember, the king of the universe got off of the throne in heaven to serve you.
So it may be time to get off your couch and serve him.
Okay?
There's no shame.
It's just time to join the game.
To live within your identity as a servant of God.
And the wrong question for any of us to ask, walking out of here, is, am I doing enough?
That's not the question you need to be asked.
It's not a checklist to accomplish.
It's a heart God wants to cultivate.
So instead, start with this question.
God, how do you want to shape my heart to step into what you're already calling me to do?
How do you want to shape my heart to step into what you're calling me to do?
Help us to assume this identity, and then from that place, there are a variety, a veritable cornucopia of ways to serve and live out that identity.
I looked into it.
There are roughly 50 bajillion ways to serve in Los Angeles.
Okay?
There is an outlet for you.
And there's needs.
There's needs that we have been drawn towards together as a local body of believers.
You heard them.
I talked about them.
That may be a starting point for you if that's how you want to serve.
But I'm not going to tell you what to do.
That's not the point of this sermon.
You ask God what He wants you to do.
If it's here on Sundays, or if it's one of our church ministries, like in community groups or gospel care, great.
If it's RFKC, or ServLA, or mission partners, great.
If it's starting in your home, great.
If it's at work, or with your neighbor, or in your margins, or somewhere you don't even know, great.
That's a great place to start.
Whatever you're called to do, do it sacrificially.
Do it with a new identity.
Do it affirming the dignity of those around you and do it with endurance, all for the glory of God and for the welfare of our city.
And do this empowered by the Holy Spirit of God, not just as proclaimers of a blessing, but with a living faith, participating in good works unto the Lord.
Amen.
Amen, let's pray.
Father in heaven, we love you.
We love you and that is our prayer, God, that you would empower us by your spirit to be a people of living faith.
People who are ready to count the cost and to give ourselves just as you have given yourself for us, God.
And so we pray, help us to live in this identity that you've already given to us as children of God and as servants of the Most High and help us to serve your people in your city with joy, God.
We love you and we pray these things in your name, Jesus.
Amen.